okay let's go ahead and get started thank you everyone for joining today's Stellar development foundation quarterly call we are very excited to have you all on we are very excited to have you all on today we've got an exciting agenda a lot to cover because sdf and stuller really had a big second quarter of 2020. danel dixon our ceo is going to kick things off in a moment with an announcement about our work with a fortune 15 company and to also share some other highlights and achievements we've worked towards in q2 and she'll be joined by bill bar height ceo of abra about the exciting work and products that abra's been working on and that are powered by Stellar and justin rice our head of ecosystem at sdf he's going to provide some details on our technology updates and our overall network performance as well as share some more about our terrible charitable giving program that we just announced with our ecosystem partner loomanthropy and then our general counsel candace kelly is going to touch on sdf's growing visibility and our public engagement activities and the work we've been doing
activities and the work we've been doing to increase our involvement in the policy dialogue so like i said a lot to cover and of so like I said a lot to cover and of course we'll leave some time at the end to answer any questions you have about today's presentation or the report that you should have all received just shortly before the call started and you can submit questions throughout the presentation in the chat box in the chat box marked q a in the left in the chat box marked q a in the left hand corner so with that I'm really excited to turn it over to our ceo and executive director danielle dixon for the moment we've all been waiting for danielle thank you lauren it's so awesome to be here thanks everyone for joining the call today i just really love these quarterly calls I just really love these quarterly calls i actually really love going back and I actually really love going back and reflecting on the quarter that we just had so I'm really excited to be here and thank you guys for joining us so let's get started first I'm super excited to announce and to highlight that in q2 we finalized sellers integration into samsung's blockchain key store so over the last several months we've been working closely with samsung to integrate Stellar and I'm happy to announce that Stellar end users are now
announce that Stellar end users are now able to securely store private keys on select samsung galaxy smartphones i've been saying this a lot lately but key management is an important part of how we will drive our technology into the mainstream and samsung provides a key management solution that is user friendly and will ultimately drive greater adoption of blockchain technology because it's so easy to use it's designed with the user in mind which is just a really important thing that we need to continually focus on in blockchain this integration is also significant development for the great ecosystem of applications built on our network it's going to allow Stellar ecosystem developers to create blockchain apps and services for samsung galaxy smartphones in addition to existing Stellar-based products and applications it just opens up a whole new network of it just opens up a whole new network of users that can benefit from the combined innovation of Stellar and samsung we already have four Stellar based businesses adopting the required sdks to make their the required sdks to make their applications available in the key store this is including d stock and satoshi
this is including d stock and satoshi pay lightmint and nodal but our work with samsung isn't going to stop here we're committed to collaborating to expand and improve the blockchain ecosystem experience for consumers by working with developers who built who have built on Stellar network and incorporated the appropriate sdks into their applications to utilize the samsung blockchain keystore and the integration into their applications so together we'll partner in an ongoing effort to recruit onboard and support developers in the Stellar ecosystem it's just the beginning as we work together to empower more developers and users to leverage blockchain in the capabilities presented by this integration we're really proud of this development and it's reflective of the growth we're seeing in all aspects of our business so it's clear that 2020 has been a year so it's clear that 2020 has been a year unlike any others across industries we've all had to adapt to a new normal we've all had to adapt to a new normal fortunately for sdf and for Stellar we're continuing to grow and thrive even during these challenging times we've grown our capacity
we've grown our capacity and our team we've brought exciting new leaders onto our board and we've made strategic advances on every core tenet of our roadmap to creating equitable access to the global financial system and I'm just so proud of our work in and I'm just so proud of our work in these areas so i want to just take you these areas so I want to just take you through the three pillars of our strategy first we've talked about our requirement that we foster sustainable use cases and so we're growing our anchor footprint in regions around the world we're building product and we're making strategic investments to be able to support this pillar second to ensure the robustness and usability of stuller so we've rolled out an upgrade to our core protocol we've expanded our developer tools and our network health when you look at the numbers is stronger than ever and justin's gonna go through that in just a few more minutes and then finally to be the blockchain that people know and trust we've fully embraced virtual visibility by making the rounds in virtual conferences and hosting 20 events of our own candace is going to share some of those highlights later in the call in addition
highlights later in the call in addition to how we're getting more visible with policy makers and regulators so the tldr is that we've made significant progress in q2 on all of our goals our strategy seems to be working and I'm convinced more than ever that our progress is proving out to be a strong year for stuller so let me share some proof points first let's talk about what we're doing to foster sustainable use cases on stuller anchors are a fundamental part of our network to facilitate moving value from the traditional banking system into Stellar and vice versa the network relies on these entities that we call anchors anchor services help create a world where the existing financial structure is connected and interoperable with Stellar so this quarter we continued our focus on building strong anchors in strategic markets so this included bolstering the u.s anchor ecosystem with the addition of inclusive which offers compliance as a service and accounts and payment capabilities we also
and payment capabilities we also expanded on calories success in nigeria and we're supporting new anchors such as click pasa in tanzania anchor mxn in mexico and end tokens in brazil i just can't say how important anchors I just can't say how important anchors are it's an essential function for enabling frictionless movement of value between fiat currencies worldwide and we're going to continue to expand our anchor footprint in markets where the data indicates that the Stellar network can have an outsize impact specifically for remittance companies serving businesses and individual lenders and payment processors we've also been building what we've talked about before which is our product a wallet called vibrant that saw its beta launch this quarter vibrant is a wallet that will soon be generally available in argentina where users will be able to hold share convert and send value it also showcases sep 30 seller ecosystem proposal 30 about key recovery mechanism that is very user friendly so i encourage you very user friendly so I encourage you all to check it out even in the beta all to check it out even in the beta form
form and then the other important way we've been fostering sustainable use cases on stuller is by investing in businesses on the network we made two enterprise fund investments in q2 one investment in satoshi pay a platform for connecting the world through instant payments and one of the earliest adopters of Stellar satoshi pay expanded their business to tap into a growing b2b cross-border payments market where there is huge potential for a player like them who has been in this space and knows the opportunities and the challenges the other investment went to opera a next generation financial platform which is facilitating opera's integration with Stellar as its blockchain back end and offers expansion of financial services that will bring new products powered by Stellar so to share more about this work and the progress they've made so far I'm happy to introduce bill barheit the ceo from oprah to the call thanks so much bill for joining us thank you for having me and good morning or good afternoon wherever you
may be so I'm going to spend five minutes just giving you an introduction to abra's business and then danielle and I are going to speak a little bit so if you'd like to move into the slides for forever so just to give you those of you who don't know abra a quick overview of the services we provide abra is one of the more successful most successful wallets in the cryptocurrency space today although we have users now using abra for storing fiat and moving traditional money around as well hundreds of thousands of users in over 100 countries now i think we're 100 countries now I think we're approaching 150 countries and we've processed processing a billion plus in transaction volume yearly just the ex team has executed extremely well over the last couple of years and we're really excited now to take this to the next level with stuller and we're really excited that they've joined our investor base including american express and foxconn and arbor fidelity back fund so
and arbor fidelity back fund so just let me walk you through some of the details on the next slide if you of the details on the next slide if you will of how this all works so in order to provide this awesome service that we have we've had to build lots of capabilities both what we call our core capabilities as well as our core services for depositing earning interest borrowing investing and soon paying and spending and then of course all of the back-end capabilities that go into effectively running a fintech financial technology company let me walk you through a couple of those now and i'll go to the next of those now and i'll go to the next slide so what everybody knows of course in the front end is the ability to invest as the world's beloved cryptocurrency investing wallet app we basically work with lots of exchanges and lots of partners to facilitate the buy sell hold and transfer of dozens of cryptocurrency assets and now lots of
and now lots of assets and we run a very large liquidity system to allow consumers in lots of countries to get money in and out of the system both in fiat via the banking system bank wires ach what most of us in the us would know as what most of us in the us would know as well as cash network so that folks in for example in southeast asia philippines or in central america like in guatemala can actually use cash in their pockets to get money into the abra app and then to get money into the abra app and then withdraw cash from the abra app and to do that we've from the abra app and to do that we've built a network of retail partners to process deposits and withdrawals into the app it's very complex difficult part of our business but it's actually growing faster even it's actually growing faster even than the bank part of the business which is really exciting it's been exploding the past few weeks exploding the past few weeks in particular so that's something we're really excited about on the next slide i give you on the next slide I give you if we go to the next slide
there might be a slight delay can you are you earn interest i see it so sorry about that so yeah I see it so sorry about that so yeah so just to give you a little sneak peek so just to give you a little sneak peek on some other capabilities this is the interest earning capability that we're going to be launching in the next couple of weeks this allows consumers for example people who not even aren't even familiar with cryptocurrency to store dollars and earn significant interest on those dollars or actually our existing crypto users can earn interest on their deposits as well we'll on their deposits as well we'll be supporting staking currencies to earn interest there and other currencies over time so in the next slide you can see that in addition to you know just what we the interest earning on the front end we've built a very sophisticated lending system where we have very large institutional partners
very large institutional partners that are vetted in our risk management processes and basic are borrowing those funds in order to generate high yield for our consumers and that is that includes everything from minors hedge funds large exchanges other loan originators and this is a good segue into what we're working on with Stellar so if you'd like to go to the last slide really the next the to the last slide really the next phase for abra is as i alluded to for us to take is as I alluded to for us to take this to another level is building an entirely new part of our business in order to facilitate the movement of funds globally in real time using the Stellar network and to do that and what that will enable and to do that and what that will enable for us is all forms of global lending the first kind of generation of lending that you hear about in the crypto world has to do with people leveraging themselves to go along in crypto or
along in crypto or people borrowing against their bitcoin or ethereum holdings we want to take this to another level and use the Stellar platform to truly enable traditional banking applications at global scale trade finance rights cross-border p2p loan origination loans like that for example that are very difficult for people in the west to take advantage of in many cases we think are totally possible now leveraging the power of crypto and distiller platform so this is just a quick kind of peek as to what's coming and what we're really excited about to be working on with Stellar so i'd be happy to answer any questions well thanks bill well thank you the idea of me being the well thank you the idea of me being the one to ask you questions i've been on your podcast so now it's my turn i get your podcast so now it's my turn I get to ask you a few one of the things i wondered is you one of the things I wondered is you know we talk a lot about financial inclusion in blockchain and i just inclusion in blockchain and I just wondered like from your standpoint how is aubry focused on
is aubry focused on financial inclusion and what are the how do you think about that from your business side that's a great question we see financial inclusion as basically leveling access and creating a level playing field for access globally so that somebody in i mentioned philippines earlier you know I mentioned philippines earlier you know a farmer in the philippines in mindanao for example where we actually have users at abra can access the same services in a banking app as an investment banker in san francisco which is a place where we also have users and i think abra is one of the first and I think abra is one of the first companies to really try to create a level playing field across all of these different geographies in a way that doesn't really differentiate from person to person obviously in terms of how people might get money in and out of how people might get money in and out of the out of the system would be different for a cash user in southeast asia versus a banked consumer in san francisco but other than that the core services they want in terms of the ability to invest and earn
ability to invest and earn the ability to borrow the ability to send and share funds they're all the same the amounts might be different but the ideas and the basics of what they want are effectively the same and our goal is to enable that globally and do you think that in our industry we're already making strides to really push this notion of financial inclusion forward well it's i think it's a mixed bag i well it's I think it's a mixed bag i think that there's a lot of people kind of at the there's a lot of people kind of at the bottom of the income pyramid who've done fantastic work in building kind of micro finance services that's really hard it's very expensive it's generally not self-sustaining with some exceptions in mexico and india i think we've in mexico and india I think we've seen some examples of how microfinance can be self-sustaining but when you move into the middle of the income pyramid which is where abra is more focused it really becomes more about creating a holistic kind of global oriented user experience that
global oriented user experience that most banks don't understand they focus on bank branches they focus just purely on compliance is obviously very important but it has to fit in with the user but it has to fit in with the user experience and we're starting to see this in some of these challenger banks particularly in europe and in latin america that are gaining traction and that's very encouraging and i think and that's very encouraging and I think i think you're going to see kind of a I think you're going to see kind of a whole other generation of these challenger kind of services now that are just going to leave the banks in the dust okay so now i want to move a little bit okay so now I want to move a little bit back to stuller and would love to just have your few thoughts about why you selected Stellar and why you thought Stellar was a great entity a great chain to build on sure i think chain to build on sure I think for us we're big believers in leveraging the power of cryptocurrency technology blockchain technology and now stable coins which has become kind of a flavor of the month but it's kind of a flavor of the month but it's simply a way of leveraging cryptocurrency technology to represent traditional value
represent traditional value on a blockchain to facilitate real world banking applications the first generation of all of this whether it's the deep fi which the flavor of the month have all been around crypto for the sake of crypto and that's fine we needed to get where we are somehow but we're excited about making this globally accessible for traditional banking applications many challenges there one of the biggest challenges we faced in just the kind of the 1.0 of faced in just the kind of the 1.0 of abra was scalability a lot of what we originally built for example was built on bitcoin and it just wouldn't scale right so what we need is the ability to have a platform that can create these stable coins but can scale to truly global applications in time and space for us in a way that the kind of a space for us in a way that the kind of a lot of the first generation platforms could not and that's where we think Stellar truly shines all right I love that now let me just ask you one more question before we turn
ask you one more question before we turn it over to justin and if you think about the rest of the year and what a strange year it's been what is the one thing that you would love to see in this space change and develop by year end so that we could actually blow things up in 2021 yeah that's a great question so a lot of yeah that's a great question so a lot of the first generation of stable coin products have been very us-dollar-centric there's a little bit of a few examples of other things but i would really like to see things but I would really like to see some major g10 currencies really go for or accompany startups start to develop some g10 currencies beyond the dollar using stablecoin technologies like Stellar or others and start to see a lot of traction in and start to see a lot of traction in forex applications money transfer remittances cross-border business payments that start to take advantage of this ability to do on the wire money transfer if we see that then we know that we have real proof points for crypto
points for crypto being useful in the quote unquote real world and we know it's coming it's just a question of is it going to happen you know in the next few months you know in the next few months you know the next year et cetera the next year et cetera but that would personally excite me the most it may sound boring but that's what it's going to take to make this really useful at global scale so awesome that would be great to see that happen thank you so much bill for joining us and i know that much bill for joining us and I know that you'll be available afterwards for also questions so at this point I'm going to turn it so at this point I'm going to turn it over to justin who's going to walk us through some network stats and other things that he wants to share with us great thanks to now thanks bill I'm justin rice head of ecosystem at sdf and I'm super excited to be here to share more about the continued growth of the network and the development of Stellar technology so Stellar is open source and open participation and many of the advancements sdf makes are in collaboration with our ecosystem in these uncertain times when it's clear so many are struggling we've been asking ourselves how can we work with our ecosystem to make a
work with our ecosystem to make a difference now of course we believe the technology we're working on will help address some key underlying issues over the long term but we also continue to ask ourselves what can we do to help today so we've decided that part of our short-term answer is to continue our partnership with lumenthropy which is a Stellar-based platform for charitable donations this time to rally our community to support an organization deeply relevant to today's challenges the usf institute for non-violence and social justice which is a 501c3 driving research education and advocacy to advance the practice of transformational non-violence so for the entire month of july we will match lumen donations made by our community to the institute up to two million lumens we kicked off the campaign with a 100 000 lumen donation and we're excited to see what our community will contribute to make the world a better more generous and more compassionate place now let's take a look at this quarter's numbers and talk a bit about what they mean so here are some key network stats
so here are some key network stats and we'll sort of go through them quickly the number of accounts on the network has been stable hovering around 4.5 million total we've seen a slight increase in the number of daily operations up 9 from q1 and that represents solid network throughput and speaks to the scalability of the network there was a significant uptick in average daily trading volume on Stellar's decentralized exchange this quarter we saw about 5.9 million lumens worth of trades per day which is a 70 increase from last quarter the total number of payments has also grown consistently over q2 9 million to more than 13 million as of june 30th there were 7 893 on-chain assets which is a lot i think it's important to note that I think it's important to note that we're working on a method to distinguish and measure meaningful assets those are assets that contribute to the connected financial infrastructure that we're financial infrastructure that we're trying to build assets very in line with the anchor strategy that danel mentioned earlier and many of these 7000 plus on-chain
and many of these 7000 plus on-chain assets will be beyond the scope of our area of focus but one thing is for sure people find it but one thing is for sure people find it very easy to issue assets using Stellar lastly let's take a look at where the network is in terms of health and decentralization there are currently 23 tier 1 validating nodes and about 120 nodes total that's about the same as last quarter and what we mentioned then bears repeating the network would continue it would keep going even if the sdf turned off all of its notes what's more encouraging is that we're seeing more organizations in the pipeline to join the ranks of the tier one validators and that's because there are more businesses invested in the network want to increase their engagement and are capable of doing so those tier 1 validators are fundamental to the health and stability of the network they're also important to its governance and they help drive important upgrades to the network like the adoption of protocol 13 and q12 so protocol 13. on june 18th the Stellar public network upgraded to protocol 13.
upgraded to protocol 13. like all important network-wide settings protocol version is decided by validating nodes who vote for and agree to new protocol versions the same way they vote for an agree to transaction sets a protocol upgrade implements a bundle of core advancement proposals also known as core advancement proposals also known as caps and protocol 13 included five the first two cap 28 and cap 30 they're the first two cap 28 and cap 30 they're really technical optimizations one involved pre-auth signers the other involved operation response codes we won't get into the nitty-gritty details here but the key takeaway for those two they both held Stellar core and therefore the network as a whole run a little leaner but what made this release really exciting was the addition of three powerful new features the first is fee bumps cap 15 which empower app builders to cover user fees so they can create simpler and better customer experiences they also allow validators to increase the minimum network fee without invalidating pre-signed transactions thereby giving them the flexibility to respond to changes in network usage
network usage so they can ensure that Stellar continues to function as a fast efficient and decentralized system for payments the second feature in protocol 13 is fine grain control of asset authorization cap 18 which grants issuers of regulated assets the ability to approve user transactions on a case-by-case basis without cancelling open orders on the books so this optimizes Stellar so it's a great option for issuing assets with high compliance requirements like security tickets and the third protocol 13 feature is first class multiplexed accounts cap 27 which allows exchanges and custodial services to map a single Stellar account to multiple users without relying on inefficient workarounds we've learned a lot by talking to some of the larger crypto exchanges and this change will not only make their lives easier it will also pave the way for businesses that want to manage client accounts to build on Stellar in addition to these changes at the protocol level of the network we've also made some important advancements for developers and businesses
businesses on the application level for example we introduced sep 30 to now mention that earlier it's a seamless user-focused solution for key management and key recovery as danelle was mentioned then and when she was talking about samsung key management is one of the biggest impediments to user adoption not just for Stellar but for crypto generally and it's also one of the most difficult problems to solve for keys aren't something you can remember they're complicated strings of letters and numbers and in most crypto apps if you lose your and in most crypto apps if you lose your key you permanently lose access to your account and that just doesn't work for most human beings so you can't introduce an app to the general public and grow it at app to the general public and grow it at scale if a small human error can cost you everything there has to be some sort of recourse I'm not going to get into all the technical details but step 30 solves the problem of key management by leveraging Stellar's built-in multi-sig capabilities to allow a user to easily recover access to an account without ever giving control of that account to a third party as danelle mentioned vibrant is built on step 30 and i tested it last week step 30 and I tested it last week all i had to remember to access my
all I had to remember to access my account was my phone number the implications of sub 30 could be huge right it paves the way for a new breed of user friendly apps on for a new breed of user friendly apps on Stellar and we're really excited to see what businesses and developers can do we also did a complete overhaul of our developer documentation the docs are now leaner better looking and more focused on today's use cases they're organized around learning paths and will continue to add more learning paths as network use cases evolve Stellar's always been known for having good documentation and we kept everything that was working with this new update we just made it even easier to learn how we just made it even easier to learn how to build on Stellar that's it for me so with that it's my that's it for me so with that it's my pleasure to turn it over to candace kelly our general counsel to share with you what we've been doing to be the blockchain people know and trust candace thanks so much justin it's great to be here again I'm candice kelly the general counsel it's really encouraging to see all the growth in our network and in the technology we've also been busy this quarter getting vocal and visible
getting vocal and visible virtually of course in this pandemic time on the policy front we became a platform partner in the world economic forum center for the fourth industrial revolution as a member we're on the digital currency governance consortium which is a working group of industry stakeholders addressing key questions and governance gaps posed by new forms of digital currency including stable coins the consortium has a number of working groups and we're focusing specifically on the digital currency use cases the working group will assess where digital currency may add value including a number of areas that are right in our strike zone for example the potential for digital currency to replace cash particularly in pandemic time issues related to the need for lower cost remittances and cross-border payments financial inclusion money laundering and strengthening of aml cft capacities domestic and cross-border regulatory oversight and coordination monetary control and central bank
monetary control and central bank digital currencies and since as justin just mentioned Stellar was designed for stable coins and cbdc's we find that it's very easy to issue assets on the Stellar network we're looking forward to see how we'll advance this important work of the world economic forum and then to strengthen sds capacity to join more policy discussions and forums like the west and to and forums like the west and to raise awareness for Stellar within the policy maker and regulatory spheres we also hired a new head of policy and we also hired a new head of policy and government relations who's focused primarily on engagement in dc but he's already getting up to speed on policy issues that reach well beyond our borders as well but we haven't just been getting vocal with policy makers we devoted a lot of q2 to both joining and hosting a lot of q2 to both joining and hosting virtual events we participated in eight industry events we ran a Stellar foundation session at consensus distributed where we shared the vision of Stellar in
where we shared the vision of Stellar in 2020 and also highlighted businesses built on Stellar both jed and danelle were on stage at block down to 2.0 jed was on a mastermind panel on interoperability and danelle delivered a keynote on her favorite topic of the moment key management danelle of the moment key management danelle also presented to a global audience of entrepreneurs at road to tycon in june we also focused at road to tycon in june we also focused on expanding our own capacity to host virtual events which resulted in a total of 20 events we had 16 in english and we had four in we had 16 in english and we had four in spanish throughout the quarter ranging from webinars workshops round tables engineering talks some of the highlights include a webinar on anchor basics the business and benefits of being an anchor a webinar on compliance and the Stellar network supporting our announcement of our partnership with elliptic an engine engineering talk on kelp which is a free customizable open source trading bot for the Stellar universal marketplace
marketplace and a roundtable discussion on ecosystem standards for creating payment corridors which ultimately resulted in the creation of step 31 which is helping anchors in the network sending and receiving transactions which is a tool that helps them to comply with the travel role in addition to our aggressive efforts in the communications front sdf executed a series of paid marketing initiatives to further awareness and understanding of the Stellar network our two speaking appearances at the consensus distributed conference were complemented by sponsorship activation within the virtual conference as well as within coindesk podcast series additionally sdf advertised on the unchained podcast hosted by laura shin and we've also begun testing the effectiveness of online search and display media we also started preparations for our biggest virtual event of all which is our second annual Stellar conference meridian is set for november
meridian is set for november 16th through the 20th and in the context of the ongoing pandemic we've decided that the event will be held virtually and it will be free of charge the theme of the event is global connections to solve real world challenges stay tuned for updates like speaker and program announcements by signing up at meridian.org so that's it for me lauren i'll hand it so that's it for me lauren i'll hand it back to you thank you candice and thank you everyone those we're now ready to open it up to q a so we're now ready to open it up to q a so if you have questions please submit them in the chat box in the upper left hand in the chat box in the upper left hand corner of your screen it looks like we already have one that we can kick off with danelle i think this one off with danelle I think this one probably best suited for you is to what extent has sdf's work been impacted or not by the pandemic that's such a great question and it's such a hard question because as you can see by what we've done in q2 you can see by what we've done in q2 during the heart of the pandemic i
during the heart of the pandemic i think we've done awesome work and I'm so grateful for all of our team and I'm so grateful for all of our team members who've spent so much of their time focused on the work even in a time when focused on the work even in a time when there's so many other things in the world to focus on so we've kind of nailed it in terms of so we've kind of nailed it in terms of the work that we've done but i can't the work that we've done but I can't pretend that this hasn't impacted sdf in particular just because our sdf in addition to our the Stellar ecosystem from an sds standpoint we have we were open to remote already we had lots of employees that were working remotely and so this has just broadened that and made it so that we're all working from our homes and in our home offices and really i think doing a great job and really I think doing a great job working together but i have to say like it's hard and i but I have to say like it's hard and i think everybody's experiencing this all around the world that it's it gets hard when you don't have as much human contact as you're used to so we really are trying to focus on getting folks to step away from their computers and to have some of their personal and alone time so that they can really like fuel what they need to feel in their life so that they can still give back to
life so that they can still give back to us but also to their families i will say that i think that we're I will say that I think that we're very mindful that even though sdf i think has been that even though sdf I think has been pretty strong and done some really great work and had and we're stable in terms of our financials there are others in the ecosystem who've been impacted so we keep a really close eye on how the we keep a really close eye on how the ecosystem is doing just to make sure that we have an understanding and that we can do what we can do to support the we can do what we can do to support the ecosystem with respect to any kind of work that we with respect to any kind of work that we can do documentation we can provide to make things seamless and easy so all told i think we've done told I think we've done a fairly good job of really staying focused during this but i can't deny that it's just hard i but I can't deny that it's just hard i think it's hard for all of us thanks danielle I think the next question we have that came in here is for bill at abra so i think you know bill at abra so I think you know we made the announcement back in may about how you're going to be using Stellar and so maybe you could explain kind of what's happened from may to now sure so this is happening in
sure so this is happening in phases for us yes we are our goal is to build a yes we are our goal is to build a series of global banking services which also take advantage of the Stellar network and the first phase for us is our lending business and that's already launched where we're basically building relationships with lots of institutional players who will be partnering with abra in the lending space that tends to be stuff that we don't necessarily announce but is essential for building up liquidity in our network and then the technology part of this is something that we'll be working on mostly in the second half of this year and then the launch of that will also is and then the launch of that will also is actually related to the question danelle just answered to the state of the kind of the lending markets because of covet the lending markets because of covet and you know for example if we're
and you know for example if we're looking at cross-border p2p loan origination for example or cross-border trade finance applications a lot of what trade finance applications a lot of what we end up doing from a risk management perspective will depend upon the state of the markets and you know this is the goal here is to and this is the goal here is to and this is the second part of your question that i see second part of your question that I see benjamin is that this extends what's working in d5 way beyond just crypto for the sake of crypto but really to make it truly useful in traditional finance applications my favorite is cross-border p2p loan origination because this means that loan originators there are many p2p loan originators for example now who are well funded in southeast asia latin america but they have to source capital locally and it's often very expensive because the traditional banks won't play and by opening that up to other forms of capital that means that we can eventually drive
that means that we can eventually drive the rates down for small business and individual loans in those emerging markets in those emerging markets and i think that leveraging stable coin and I think that leveraging stable coin technology for example to be able to move that money around very quickly is an essential part of enabling that over time because we just can't do it fast enough be in the banks thank you so i think the next question so I think the next question we've got here is for danelle you mentioned having a growing anchor footprint what's been the driver behind getting more anchors on board and do we have a more anchors on board and do we have a goal for the number of anchors that we would ultimately get to so anchors are my next favorite topic and set 30 and anchors are kind of close in terms of the needs and the value that anchors and the needs and the value that anchors and then also key recovery and then also key recovery bring to the network and just to blockchain generally having financial institutions on the network and creating corridors so that businesses and individuals can
that businesses and individuals can benefit for the from these cross-border transactions is just crucial for the success of the Stellar network and so the driver has been very clearly that we need them and the other driver has been demand from we have corridors that are already open and then we have demand from some of the anchors to say hey we would some of the anchors to say hey we would love to have you know another anchor on the other side in brazil for example or another anchor on the other side in mexico so that we on the other side in mexico so that we can actually have those transactions go back and forth so it's the increasing volume on the network the increasing requirements that we see to open up more and more corridors that are driving the need for anchors but this is just a the need for anchors but this is just a really important part of what we need to do and important part of what we need to do and what i see what I see our value add to the network is from an our value add to the network is from an sds standpoint is that we can help these financial institutions to be able to integrate and to seamlessly operate with the network and with the other players on it and i don't look at this in terms of and I don't look at this in terms of numbers because i think that it's more numbers because I think that it's more important that you think about it in terms of corridors being open so we're actually working now to
so we're actually working now to determine what our we're doing our q3 okrs right now to determine what we want to see in terms of growth but I'm not going to lie i would love to but I'm not going to lie I would love to see like 10 20 30 more anchors on the see like 10 20 30 more anchors on the network in the next six months now that's just a huge number to bring on but it would just be fantastic to be able to see more and more quarters open up so that we can have more and more room so that we can have more and more room for other businesses to join and participate in what we see is just a growing ecosystem thanks danielle I think the next question here is probably for justin are there any technical advancements like future caps or seps that you anticipate that are in the works yeah that's a great question there are several i'll talk about some of the few like some of the most important ones protocol 14 is well underway and it involves two caps that introduce also new great features cap 23 which introduces claimable balances
balances they allow sending a payment to an account that is not yet prepared to receive it and cap 33 which introduces sponsored reserves essentially allowing an app to cover user reserves so users don't have to understand or manage a lumen balance both these things work together to basically make it so that you can build apps that make it so that you can build apps that manage all of the sort of crypto aspects of Stellar and conceal the complexity of crypto from users so people can build payment apps that look and feel like payment apps rather than like crypto payment apps and that's those two will be part of protocol 14 which is in the works and once it's done which is in the works and once it's done we'll sort of start rolling it out and working with the ecosystem to get the network upgraded well underway the second sort of big one that we're working on and we've been working on for a while is a step been working on for a while is a step again a sort of ecosystem level solution for a problem that many people building on Stellar phase this one is called step 31 and essentially it's designed in conjunction with some current anchors it enables two anchors to interoperate to pass required information
to pass required information and makes it so a user can send fiat and makes it so a user can send fiat from their bank account directly to the recipient's bank account again this conceals sort of the complexity of crypto from users and it also allows these anchors to comply with the travel rules so they comply with an important regulation that requires financial institutions to share certain info about parties involved in a transaction and step 31 is like a spec that has been worked out and in a spec that has been worked out and in fact we just added step 31 functionality to polaris which is a reference implementation that people can use so that anchors can set this up really easily and say those are the two big things thank you justin okay I think we have another question that came in here and this one i think is for bill this one I think is for bill so i think some people saw the news so I think some people saw the news about the announcement of the settlement you had with regulators yesterday and just general question about whether you anticipate any impact from that on your business
your business sure that's a good question back in I believe in the november december time frame and we've long since moved on in our business so basically for the last seven months of the business that we've been running as had basically been post those agreements so it just happens to have been yesterday that the sec and cftc made the announcements we actually have no visibility as to when they're going to do that it's kind of a black that was just a coincidence and as i said abra has long since moved on I'm not allowed to comment on the content of the agreements except to say you know we're fine with how far our business in the us in particular is doing really well and we're really happy with how things stand so no concerns great thank you very much for sharing that and i think we have one that and I think we have one last question coming in here and it's
last question coming in here and it's for candid candice what kind of policy objectives are you looking to achieve by engaging in dc and with like the world economic forum as you mentioned in your part of the presentation thanks lauren that's a good question I think this is a really exciting time in the policy world of cryptocurrency i will say that i think that the I will say that I think that the announcement of libra last year and then the pandemic and the discussions around digital dollar and getting stimulus checks out in a secure and efficient way has really raised the profile and the interest level on the hill and in dc with both regulators and policy makers in terms of first just understanding what it is i think that there were a lot of folks I think that there were a lot of folks who were quite well educated on cryptocurrency and blockchain on cryptocurrency and blockchain technology but they're a lot who are still getting up to speed a lot who are still getting up to speed on that
on that and there's a there's an urgency and an interest in doing that which makes it really a great opportunity for us and i think that Stellar the sdf as a and I think that Stellar the sdf as a non-profit is in a unique role in that we really hope to be able to be a credible voice in just helping in that education department and obviously it starts with education and then participation having somebody now a full-time person who can really focus on these issues is fantastic and then advocacy is the and then advocacy is the ultimate goal so both within dc and then as i mentioned both within dc and then as I mentioned it's impossible with the global nature of our business and this technology to not be jumping in to conversations in all different jurisdictions as regulators across the globe are trying to figure this out and take advantage of blockchain in a and take advantage of blockchain in a safe and compliant way so the world economic forum is one way that we're doing that but we're also engaging with anchors and partners across the
with anchors and partners across the globe in making sure that we are being helpful in both educating and advocating on that on the policy front great well i think that is all the great well I think that is all the questions we had thank you to our speakers for joining today if anyone on the call has follow-up questions feel free to email us at media Stellar.org and thank you everyone for joining us today